Okay we're gonna talk about the spring being lifecycle.
Now the beans do go through a specific life cycle.
There's actually a lot going on behind the scenes and a lot of this is handled by the framework.
And as a spring developer we don't need to get into it that often.
There are definitely times that you do.
But generally speaking you can continue working on Spring applications and be blissfully unaware of
this stuff but it is actually very important to know as you get into more and more complex applications
with the spring framework.
So let's take a quick look at the spring bean lifecycle and the first thing that's gonna happen is we're
going to instantiate that class so that class is going to get called.
Obviously if it's got a constructor and dependencies in that constructor that's when those will get
injected.
And then we have the ability to inject properties into that so it can set property values on that being
like say a data source is going to have like a user name and password.
So we'd be setting properties there and storing value.
So we want to invoke from a properties file which is set at that point.
Now there's a couple interfaces that you can implement and they're aware interfaces and these are gonna
get called early on in the being lifecycle.
So you can see that being name aware being factory aware and application context where those three are
gonna get called in that order is that it gets wired up and then we have the pre initialization and
we have been post processors and we'll take a look at those in a future slide here and then the being
goes through initializing and there's an interface that we can do for initializing means and then we
can also specify a custom initialization.
And then finally you can see down the bottom right hand corner there is the post initialization and
that again as the being post processors.
And at that point that being is considered ready to use by the framework and the framework moves on
continuous creating the means and gets everything wired up and then can run for an indefinite amount
of time and then ultimately we're going to have some type of termination about ideally unless we just
pull the plug on the server.
So we should get a container shutdown signal.
And at this point you have a interface you can implement called Disposable being the destroy method
will get called or you can specify a custom destroy method.
And this is a handy way if you have something like opening up a socket and you need to do a clean and
graceful disconnect.
This is where you'd put that there and at that point after that the bean is destroyed or terminated
and we have Arnold dirt to terminate the being and that is the end of the spring being lifecycle.
We did it manually the initial item being disposable being those are callback interfaces and all you
have to do is on your spring being implement these interfaces and the initializing being after property
set that method will get called by the framework after the properties are set within that spring being
lifecycle graph that we had there and then likewise if you implement the disposable interface on your
being the destroyed month it will get called during shutdown after or being termination.
So these are two callback interfaces that are provided by the spring framework which you can use you
can implement one.
Either one of them or none at all.
So you don't have to implement these you only need to implement them when you have a use for them.
Next we have a couple lifecycle annotations and these were introduced I think in spring framework three
I believe.
So these two annotations you can hook into the beans lifecycle.
We have post construct these annotated methods will be called after the Bean has been constructed but
before it's been returned to the request object so it it's like right after the bean gets created and
then we have pre destroy kind of works like the lifecycle hook both these works are very similar and
happen in near contexts of the lifecycle so Prieta story is going to be called just before the being
gets destroyed by the container and then in the life cycle we mentioned being post processors basically
these give you a way to tap into the spring context the life cycle and interact with the beans as they
are processed.
So you again Do this by implementing an interface called being post processor and it's going to ask
you to provide implementations of two methods.
And these two methods are going to get called during the being creation process and both methods will
take in an object which will be the bean that it's being supplied and then you can interact with that
object so you'd probably have to check the type of the object to set up a reflection there and do whatever
you need to do to be honest I've actually never found a use for these.
I know they're there but I just never had a use for them.
So it's kind of a cool feature knowing that you can hook into it but in reality it just never had a
need to utilize these in doing spring application development.
Next we need talk about aware interfaces spring provides at a time writing over 14 or 14 aware interfaces
and these are used to access the spring framework infrastructure.
You see them used a lot with inside the spring framework.
If you start going in in the spring code and looking through it you will see these interfaces being
used quite a bit.
But in reality they're not used that much by spring application developers.
I've had to use them occasionally when you have a specific use case but reality wise it's largely framework
type stuff and as a day to day spring developer doing business application development with the spring
framework just not much of a need for them.
We will do a quick review application context aware where this one is probably one of the more common
ones that you're going to use.
And this gives you a way to get a handle of the application context in the application and then publish
everywhere.
This is one that you will use if you're going to be throwing application events so you can define custom
events inside a spring.
Then you can happen and set up event listeners so that that's a real handy one.
And then being factory aware this is a way to get a handle on the spring being factory if you have a
need to get a handle on a being within some type of process.
That's also a very handy one.
And the other one they're pretty specific.
Honestly I am looking through them now.
I really haven't found a need for them but they are there.
Be aware of them.
You may run into a situation where you do need to use them.